README.md, before:

# Chime
An editor for macOS

Download the latest release on the [website][download].

Goals:
- develop modular, open source components
- be an editor people enjoy using
- support cool [extensions][chimekit]

Features:
- completions
- command line tool
- document/project-scoped search
- [editorconfig](https://editorconfig.org)
- [extensions][chimekit]
- file navigator
- syntax highlighting (driven by tree-sitter and LSP)
- structure highlighting
- semantic symbol information
- textual/symbolic quick open
- UI theming

## Project State

The code in this repo should be considered **non-functional** right now. If you want to use Chime, you can [download][download] the currently released version.

Chime used to be commercial, but is now free. It built up some pretty significant cruft over time. In particular, the core UI application architecture is just in a bad state. It is also quite complex to build. So, I've opted to re-implement that core and pull in parts as appropriate. I'll be putting an emphasis on extracting components into packages as I go. A fitting rebirth, I would say.

## Contributing

It is always a good idea to **discuss** before taking on a significant task. That said, I have a strong bias towards enthusiasm. If you are excited about doing something, I'll do my best to get out of your way.

There are a few areas that would make for excellent targets though, if you really feel so inclined.

- It would be really interesting to explore the [TreeSitterDocument](https://github.com/ChimeHQ/SwiftTreeSitter#treesitterdocument) concept
- I'd love to expand on more [universal theme support](https://github.com/chimeHQ/ThemePark)
- The text search system is bad and I'd love to build something better
- The view-based [extension system][chimekit] could really use some more attention
- I'd like to finish migrating the preferences to SwiftUI
- Support for the [Debug Adapter Protocol](https://github.com/ChimeHQ/DebugAdapterProtocol)
- The autocomplete result window isn't very pretty

By participating in this project you agree to abide by the [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### Building

**Note**: requires Xcode 15 and macOS 14

- clone the repo
- `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- `cp User.xcconfig.template User.xcconfig`
- update `User.xcconfig` with your personal information
- build/run with Xcode

Why are their submodules you ask? Chime embeds many of its extensions inside the application itself for ease of installation. However, because of limitations in how you can influence the linking process with SPM, I cannot figure out how to use SPM *and also* link against the included ChimeKit.framework.

### Guidelines

- SwiftUI where possible, AppKit where useful
- using packages is a wonderful way to support open source software
- supporting older versions of macOS is nice, not critical

### Conventions

- tabs for indentation
- configuration in xcconfig files
- project resources are sorted alphabetically
- imports are sorted by alphabetically, but parititioned to system/non-system

## Other Notable Projects

- [BBEdit](https://www.barebones.com/products/bbedit/)
- [CodeEdit](https://www.codeedit.app)
- [CodeRunner](https://coderunnerapp.com)
- [CotEditor](https://coteditor.com)
- [Nova](https://nova.app)

[download]: https://www.chimehq.com/download
[chimekit]: https://github.com/ChimeHQ/ChimeKit

Commit message:

Filling in some real DocC articles

README.md, after:

# Chime
An editor for macOS

Download the latest release on the [website][download].

Goals:
- develop modular, open source components
- be an editor people enjoy using
- support cool [extensions][chimekit]

Features:
- completions
- command line tool
- document/project-scoped search
- [editorconfig](https://editorconfig.org)
- [extensions][chimekit]
- file navigator
- syntax highlighting (driven by tree-sitter and LSP)
- structure highlighting
- semantic symbol information
- textual/symbolic quick open
- UI theming

## Project State

The code in this repo should be considered **non-functional** right now. If you want to use Chime, you can [download][download] the currently released version.

Chime used to be commercial, but is now free. It built up some pretty significant cruft over time. In particular, the core UI application architecture is just in a bad state. It is also quite complex to build. So, I've opted to re-implement that core and pull in parts as appropriate. I'll be putting an emphasis on extracting components into packages as I go. A fitting rebirth, I would say.

## Contributing

It is always a good idea to **discuss** before taking on a significant task. That said, I have a strong bias towards enthusiasm. If you are excited about doing something, I'll do my best to get out of your way.

The project is [internally documented](Edit/Chime.docc) with [DocC](https://www.swift.org/documentation/docc/#). The docs contains details about getting started, structure, and internal systems/behaviors.

There are a few areas that would make for excellent targets though, if you really feel so inclined.

- It would be really interesting to explore the [TreeSitterDocument](https://github.com/ChimeHQ/SwiftTreeSitter#treesitterdocument) concept
- I'd love to expand on more [universal theme support](https://github.com/chimeHQ/ThemePark)
- The text search system is bad and I'd love to build something better
- The view-based [extension system][chimekit] could really use some more attention
- I'd like to finish migrating the preferences to SwiftUI
- Support for the [Debug Adapter Protocol](https://github.com/ChimeHQ/DebugAdapterProtocol)
- The autocomplete result window isn't very pretty

By participating in this project you agree to abide by the [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### Building

**Note**: requires Xcode 15 and macOS 14

- clone the repo
- `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- `cp User.xcconfig.template User.xcconfig`
- update `User.xcconfig` with your personal information
- build/run with Xcode

Why are their submodules you ask? Chime embeds many of its extensions inside the application itself for ease of installation. However, because of limitations in how you can influence the linking process with SPM, I cannot figure out how to use SPM *and also* link against the included ChimeKit.framework.

### Guidelines

- SwiftUI where possible, AppKit where useful
- using packages is a wonderful way to support open source software
- supporting older versions of macOS is nice, not critical

### Conventions

- tabs for indentation
- configuration in xcconfig files
- project resources are sorted alphabetically
- imports are sorted by alphabetically, but partitioned to system/non-system

### Significant Issues

Chime is a reasonably complex project. It's bound to run into bugs in Apple frameworks, Xcode, and other systems that present a real problem to its development. This is a list of the **most serious** issues, which have a major impact on either the user or developer experience.

- FB12094161: System Settings extension approval system does not appear to work
- FB11716027: EXAppExtensionBrowserViewController duplicate apps
- FB11748287: Static metadata for extension available in AppExtensionIdentity
- FB13384096: Package with non-Swift target fails to build unless explicitly linked
- [Add macOS 14 (Sonoma) Runner Image](https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/7508)

## Other Notable Projects

- [BBEdit](https://www.barebones.com/products/bbedit/)
- [CodeEdit](https://www.codeedit.app)
- [CodeRunner](https://coderunnerapp.com)
- [CotEditor](https://coteditor.com)
- [Nova](https://nova.app)

[download]: https://www.chimehq.com/download
[chimekit]: https://github.com/ChimeHQ/ChimeKit
